# Research Group Norms, Policies, and Mentoring Contracts

## Common Elements

When constructing a set of group norms and policies for a research
group, one may wish to include statements about the following
elements. This is intended to be comprehensive list of points for
reflection, but effective statements need not include all components:

### Welcome statement

- What is the name of your group? What is the nature of your research?

- Who’s who in the research group? What responsibilities do they have?

- Statement from the group leader: Sometimes students don’t realize
that their advisors do more than teaching. What do you want students
to know about your responsibilities and time commitments? Are there
any special circumstances that students should know about that might
affect the group leader’s availability (e.g., sabbatical, family
leave)?

- Respect and Inclusivity Values statement: What positive aspects of
research and teamwork do you want to emphasize to students?  What
qualities do you want students to develop as part of this research
experience?

- Code of conduct: Do you have your own code-of-conduct or is there a
central code-of-conduct agreed upon by your department? Oftentimes
people will link to a separate document or website. Is there anything
you would add to the departmental code-of-conduct? Some elements of a
code of conduct and values statement could include:

-- Commitment to a Respectful Environment: Emphasize treating all
members with respect, regardless of personal characteristics such as
race, gender, sexual orientation, and more.  Valuing Diverse
Perspectives: Recognition of the value that diverse perspectives bring
to the research group.

-- Creating an Inclusive Environment: Active efforts to ensure all
members feel valued and included.  How to navigate a conflict: Who
should students go to when there is an issue inside the group? Who
should they go to if there is an issue outside of the research group?
What are the formal and informal reporting mechanisms? This is also a
good place to link to external professional development resources
about conflict.

